R ANGOLI
THE

OVERSEAS
WOMEN’S
CLUB
OF BANGALORE
A Division of the Overseas
Women‘s Foundation
Bangalore

JANUARY 2017

FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY

www.owcbangalore.org

15

12

FOCUS ON
CHARITY

Navachetana
The Rangoli − January 2017 | 1

The OWC 2017 Calendar
is now available
Featuring the winners of the 2016 OWC Photo Competition.
Sponsored by VR Bengaluru.
Purchase your copy at the Leela Palace coffee mornings for only Rs.300
(payments can be made via card)
100% of the purchase price will directly benefit our supported charities
2 | The Rangoli − January 2017

THE RANGOLI
(A publication of the
Overseas Women’s Club of Bangalore)

Contents

Editor: TRACI LENNON
Commissioning Editor: MARY MCAULEY
Layout: PINK LEMONADE
Distribution Team: PETRA BEKKAR

OVERSEAS WOMEN’S CLUB
OF BANGALORE

12

(A division of the Overseas Women’s
Foundation, Bangalore)
President: SHERRY WALTER
Secretary: RETA HOUB

04 Editor’s Note
06 President’s Note
08 What’s on this Month
12 FOCUS ON CHARITY

Treasurer: PAMELA MILNE
Vice President, Charities: MONICA DEXTER
Vice President, Fundraising: TESSA SCHRAM
Vice President, Events I: SHELLEY CAHILL-O’BRIEN

Navachetana

Vice President, Events II: FLORENTINA BUCHHOLZ

15 FEATURE

Vice President, Advertising: VACANT

OWC Christmas Bazaar

Vice President, Communications: LEILA SHAYEGI
Vice President, Membership I: MEREDITH MEHRA
Vice President, Administration: KELLIE UNDERWOOD

15

Vice President, Publications: GAIL BUTLER

19 EVENTS

22 HEALTH & LIFESTYLE
A Hospital Experience in Bangalore

Managing Trustee: SUSHEELA M THOMAS

25 PASSION & PURPOSE

Trustees: FRANCES RAO,
ANILA SUBRAHMANYAM and SUSANNE PERIS

My India

26 TRAVEL

ISSUE: JANUARY 2017

Printed in Bengaluru, India, by W.Q. Judge Press.

Nanhi Singh
November Lunch Bunch
Meeting an Author in Bangalore

OVERSEAS WOMEN’S
FOUNDATION, BANGALORE

Copyright Overseas Women’s Club of
Bangalore (www.owcbangalore.org). All rights
reserved. Reproduction in any manner is prohibited
unless prior approval is granted.

18 VOLUNTEER SPOTLIGHT

26

How to Enjoy Yourself - A Solo Trip to
Rishikesh

30 COOKING
Creamy Chicken and Mushroom Soup

This magazine is meant for private circulation only.
Disclaimer: Stock Images used in this edition are
taken from Google. OWC acknowledges that the
source websites retain ownership of the photos.

Cover Photo Credit: Spot Billed Pelican Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary by Tim Doup, 1st Place, Nature
Please send your letters and suggestions to editor@owcbangalore.org
Special thanks and appreciation to our members for their contribution of articles and photographs.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 3

EDITOR’S NOTE

Editor’s Note
Hello all!
Happy New Year!! As I am writing this, it isn’t the New Year quite yet but the anticipation is
building. Our cover photo this month is a perfect example of how I like to think of the New
Year – a bird just taking off in flight. I always look forward to the upcoming year as a time
to start fresh and act upon those long overdue resolutions that have been rattling around
in my head. Eat more healthily (always #1 on the list!). Try a new type of workout. Take a
class (any class!). Discover a new hobby. Read all of those novels sitting on the shelf. These
are the more physical resolutions – the ones that are relatively easy if I put my mind to it.
Then there are the more existential resolutions…. Be more patient. Be more kind. Nurture
relationships with friends and family. Don’t procrastinate. Forgive myself and others more
easily. (‘Let It Go’ from Frozen is now stuck in my head.) These are the ones that are not so
easy but the most important. I’m not sure if my ‘bird’ will take off into full flight, but come
January 1 – I’ll be giving it my all!

Traci Lennon
Editor

What are your New Year’s resolutions? Do you make up an actual list or are they just rolling
around in your head? How are you going to accomplish your personal goals for 2017? No,
this is not a test. I’m just curious about your aspirations and I’m sure others are too - so
write about it! We would love to hear about your resolution experiences – the good, the bad
and the ugly!
This issue has an awesome mix of articles that are sure to make you laugh, cry and
everything in between. The Focus on Charity tells the tale of Navachetana and the
inspirational and important work they do for the mentally ill in Bangalore. Our Feature this
month is the OWC Christmas Bazaar – it was a fantastic day filled with fun, food and of
course – shopping! It was a huge success in its new venue this year and we are very proud
that our 22 charities will profit from its success. The Volunteer Spotlight is on Nanhi Singh
and Peggy Bhohi tells us all about her many years of living in India. We have a Health &
Lifestyle section this month that will make you both cringe and laugh – probably at the same
time – with an article from Steve Schley. And finally, we learn How to EnJOY Yourself in a
travel article by Mary McAuley.
On a final note (literally), this issue of Rangoli is my last. I’ve left Bangalore for home Houston, Texas - so the Editor’s pen will now be passed on to Gail Butler, VP Publications
until a replacement is found. Bangalore was a short-term assignment for my husband and
me so I treasured every moment I spent working with the OWC and Rangoli. Before I go,
I want to thank Sherry Walter and Susheela Thomas for embracing me whole-heartedly
and making me feel like part of the team from the start; to Gail Butler for stepping up and
taking my ‘advice’ with laughter and grace; to Mary McAuley and Eva Petersitzke for coming
up with beautiful ideas and writing such fantastic articles; to the distribution team, Petra
Bekkar and Heidi Hojnicki, for the not so easy task of making sure everyone gets a copy; to
Praveen from Pink Lemonade whose creativity shines bright in every issue; and finally, to all
of you who wrote for Rangoli about your experiences and passions – this is your magazine. I
am proud to have been a small part in it.

editor@owcbangalore.org
4 | The Rangoli − January 2017

Traci

A Professional
Experience
Beyond...
In Moving
Local Ø Nationwide
Ø Worldwide
u
u
u
u

NT
EXCELLE
CLIENT
ES
C
N
E
R
E
F
RE

u
u
u

Household Relocation
Office Relocation
Fine Arts
Storage
Shipping & Transportation
Pet moving
Insurance Solution

An ISO 9001 : 2000 Company

Prakash Relocation Pvt. Ltd.

WORLDWIDE DOOR TO DOOR MOVERS
#16, 3rd Main, 8th Cross, 1st Stage, Indiranagar, Bangalore-38
Tel: 91-80-2525 6934 / 2528 5199 / 2528 5020 Mob: 98450 21368 / 90350 34314
www.prakashrelocation.com

Chennai

Ø

Cochin

E-mail: pkshrelocations@vsnl.net / infopkshrelo@vsnl.net

Ø

Hyderabad

Ø

Mumbai

Ø

The Delhi
Rangoli − Ø
January
2017 | 5
New
Kolkata

PRESIDENT’S NOTE

President’s Note
Happy New Year!
This is the time of year for reflection and contemplation. I’m the type of person that
doesn’t really make yearly resolutions. I generally like to celebrate my accomplishments
and learn from my mistakes and imperfections. There are always things I could have
done differently or better, but I try to find a way to laugh, give myself a pat on the back
and yes, even sometimes cry. I remind myself every day that I cannot live in a “Would ’a,
could ’a, should ’a” mind set, life is just too short. At the same time, I try to look forward
to the things I want to do better. I’m always telling myself that I want to be a better
mother, a better daughter, a better wife, a better friend and even a better president.
But we should all give ourselves a break and just be who we are; be you. And “You” is
who the people most important in your life already love and respect.

Sherry Walter
President
Overseas Women’s Club of Bangalore

The OWC has had so many successes in 2016. I want all of us to take the time to
celebrate the good we have done at the same time considering all of the things we
know we can improve. I’m excited for the OWC 2017 membership year. It is my wish
that we have fun, laugh, share, and learn from each other and most importantly be
good friends; love each other.
So, the OWC in 2017; what would be your New Year’s resolutions? Where would your
focus lie? Could one of your resolutions be to plan and organize one special event for
the OWC? Or, to be a Buddy to a New Member? Let me know, I’m listening.
Watch out for this year’s Photo Competition, Book Sale, Pink Elephant Sale and a few
new events coming your way including more children’s events and adult only events.
Can’t wait to share my year with you.
Learn. Love. Share. Care.
Success,

Sherry

president@owcbangalore.org

OWC website:
www.owcbangalore.org
OWC Facebook page:
www.facebook.com/
overseaswomensclub
6 | The Rangoli − January 2017

Join the Team!

We are looking for enthusiastic
volunteers for the following
OWC positions:
Rangoli Editor
Rangoli Distribution Team
VP Advertising and Communications

Congratulations to Jayshree Patel-Singh on the birth of a
beautiful daughter, Simran right here in Bangalore.
Jay is one of our Social Events VPs currently taking a well
deserved break. Warmest wishes to you and your family
from the OWC family.

For more information Contact Sherry Walter.
(president@owcbangalore.org)

OWC January 2017 Speaker Meeting
Presenting...
Chandra Mouli, will speak to us on the;
History and Architecture of Bangalore

Please come and join us in an interactive session to learn about Bangalore
Where: Shangri-La Hotel, Caprese Restaurant, 18th Floor, Palace Road
When: Tuesday, 24th January 2017
Time: 10:00am to 12:00pm
Price: Free to OWC Members and Rs.300 to NonMembers
RSVP to speaker@owcbangalore.org or at any OWC Coffee Morning
Chandra Mouli, born, bread and brewed in Bangalore, is in the business of Printing and Publishing. He also runs
an outward-bound events and communication training outfit, Moulis Outward Bound.
He has technical training in printing and colour concepts from HMT Limited, Bangalore, The Hindu, Chennai and
Kings Norton Press, England.
His interests are in Theater (English, Hindi and Kannada plays, Kannada tv serials, skits, standup routine), Public
Speaking, Training Youngsters in smart skills, Quizzing, Bird Watching and Adventure Sports.
He has been associated with the Rotary movement for the past 30 years.
He is a graphologist and a Pranic Healer
He has traveled widely in India and abroad.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 7

What’s On
This Month
Thursday, January 12, 2017 – Lunch Bunch - Byblos
Tuesday, January 17, 2017 – Charity Road Trip Jagruthi
Tuesday, January 24, 2017 – Speaker Meeting - History and
Architecture of Bangalore

Save the Date:
Friday, February 17, 2017 - Adult Only Post Valentine Party
Saturday, February 25, 2017 - Book Sale
Wednesday, March 15, 2017 - Pink Elephant Sale
For more information,
please contact activities@owcbangalore.org

The purpose of the Overseas Women’s Club as outlined
in the Constitution:

OVERSEAS
WOMEN’S
CLUB
OF BANGALORE
A Division of the Overseas
Women‘s Foundation
Bangalore

8 | The Rangoli − January 2017

1. To promote social welfare by aiding needy public charitable projects without
restriction to caste or creed, with both funds and personal involvement.
2. To welcome foreign newcomers in Bangalore and help them establish
themselves in the community.
3. To promote sociability among the members and their families.
4. To help members and their families gain a better understanding of India
through cultural and social activities and programs.

The OWC of Bangalore supports the following charities:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Accept Society
ASHA Foundation
ASHA Niketan
Ashraya Children’s Home
Bangalore Education Trust
Bangalore Hospice Trust
Belaku Trust
Deena Seva Charitable Trust
Divine Light Trust for the Blind
Dominican Sisters of the
Presentation
11. Freedom Foundation

12. Helpline Charitable Trust­–Project
Vishwas
13. Jagruthi
14. Jeevodaya Childcare India
15. Navachetana
16. New Ark Mission
17. ProVision Asia
18. Sai Shankar Loving Lights Trust
19. Shelia Kothavala Inst. for Deaf
20. Shristi Special Academy
21. Spastic Society of Karnataka
22. Vision India

OWC MEMBER DISCOUNTS

A number of our local business friends oﬀer generous discounts with a valid OWC Membership Card.
Some other establishments will also provide a discount but don’t advertise, so show your card and ask! Conditions apply.

Hotels, Restaurants and Bars
Caperberry, UB City 10% discount on food and drinks. www.caperberry.net
Oﬀer not applicable on Special Menus. These oﬀers cannot be clubbed with
any other oﬀers
FAVA, UB City – 10% discount on food and drinks. www.fava.in Oﬀer not
applicable on Special Menus. These oﬀers cannot be clubbed with any other
oﬀers
HOLIDAY INN & SUITES Bangalore – 20% discount on Food & Beverages and
Spa services to all Overseas Women's Club members. The discount is
applicable except on discounted promotional oﬀer.
ITC GARDENIA - Cubbon Pavilion - The Cubbon Pavilion is the ideal place for a

sophisticated meal in an elegant yet cosy ambience. It is named after Sir Mark
Cubbon, a British Commissioner who gave Bengaluru its identity and presence in
India. The vertical gardens in the restaurant add to the experience of dining in the
serenity of nature. The Cubbon Pavilion is a 24 hour, four meal restaurant with a
new concept of an interactive juice bar and an international buﬀet landscape.

20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.
ITC GARDENIA - Edo - Inspired by the ancient name of the city of Tokyo, EDO the Japanese Resto-bar - is the latest addition to ITC-Welcomgroup’s international
culinary brand portfolio.At EDO, traditional Japanese ﬂavours, are complemented
by an array of sakes and warm and eﬃcient service in a relaxed ambience...
Perfecting the art of the ‘Japanese after hours’

Hotel” of the country. Set on the banks of the Lake Pichola, The Leela Palace Udaipur is
the only modern palace hotel that oﬀers luxury accommodations, banquet, ﬁne dining
and spa experience. The Leela Palace Udaipur oﬀers a spectacular view of the tranquil
waters of the Lake Pichola, the City Palace and the Aravalli mountains, evoking the
grandeur and opulence of the land of the Mewars.

15% discount. for The Leela Getaway Oﬀers for The Leela Palace Udaipur.

Reservation only through our hotel website www.theleela.com by using the
promo code LGOWC

Marriot, Whiteﬁeld – 15% discount on food and beverages but not
applicable to WBC Retail outlet.
Marzipan Cafe and Bakery, Ulsoor Road & Raintree, Sankey Road - 10%
discount on bill on production of up to date OWC membership card
Mövenpick – 15% discount at My Place and Mezzsalune, 10% discount at
Obsidian Bar
Novotel, Bengaluru Techpark – 10% discount at The Square - brunch buﬀet,
a la carte and soft drinks. Not valid on special promotional and holiday
deals. Cannot be clubbed with other oﬀers
Portland Steakhouse & Café – 10% discount on food
Ritz Carlton – 15% discount on food and beverages in all restaurants for party
size of 8 or less. Discount not valid on special occassions or festivals
SBARRO – 10% discount for a group of 5 to9 people, 15% for 10 or more
people on regular menu items
Shangri-La Hotel, Bangalore – 15% discount on food, beverages and spa
service on production of up to date OWC membership card on all days

20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.

TAJ Bangalore - in the International Airport: CAFÉ 77 EAST & Tamarind 15% discount food and drinks except on Sunday brunch on presentation of OWC

ITC GARDENIA - Highland Nectar - The ITC Gardenia has successfully conjured a

TAJ Bangalore - in the International Airport: CAFÉ 77 EAST & Tamarind Special Chef's three course lunch with welcome drink on weekdays for 10
and above for @Rs.1000 + taxes. Please mention OWC cards at time of
reservation. Not valid on Christmas, New Year and Valentine's Day. The
discount cannot be combined with other oﬀers. Valid till 31st March 2017

20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.

Taj West End Hotel - Blue Bar – 15% discount on liquor at Blue Bar on
Thursdays and Fridays only
Note: - Govt. Taxes and service taxes applicable additionally - All members
must provide identiﬁcation during billing - Not applicable on special days like
Christmas, New Year, Valentine’s Day - The above oﬀers cannot be combined
with any promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March, 2017

new concept of a Whiskey bar in Bengaluru, by introducing Highland Nectar that
focuses on serving a ﬁne collection of whiskeys. It has a library and artifacts
articulating the history and eminence of whiskeys. To ensure that the guest not
only tastes the whiskey, but can also learn a few facts about what he is drinking.

ITC GARDENIA - K&K - Sophisticated and elegant, the interior glistens with rich

details of dark wood blending in the theme of the Sun God through iconic
architecture. Preparing the signature cuisine of ITC, Kebabs &Kurries is a mélange
of gastronomic inspirations from the North and South of India.

20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.
ITC GARDENIA - Lotus Pavilion - Located at the heart of the hotel, Lotus Pavilion is
a heaven of peace. The décor and architecture of the Lotus Pavilion echoes the spirit of
Tipu Sultan’s summer palace also known as Rash-e-jannat. It is a perfect setting to
experience Bengaluru’s great weather, while sipping on a hand crafted beer; from our
ﬁnest collection. It is served with a selection of tapas or hors d’oeuvres.
20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.
ITC GARDENIA - Ottimo - With a well thought out section on authentic Italian
cuisine, the culinary choices at Ottimo are a rare fusion of traditional Italian with an
emphasis on nutrition and fresh ingredients for our guests’ well-being.
20% discount. Note: - Government taxes and service taxes applicable additionally.
Up to date OWC membership card to be presented before billing. Discounts not
applicable at Christmas, New Year, Valentine's Day. Not to be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March 2017.
ITC Windsor – 20% discount on food and alcohol at Dublin, Dakshin, Dum
Pukht Jolly, Nabobs, Royal Afghan, Raj Pavillion, The Grill and on OWC
Sundowners (if) held by OWC on Fridays.
Leela Palace – 15% discount across all outlets and 20% discount on Thursdays
at Citrus
LEELA RESORTS - Leela Palace, Udaipur. - The Leela Palace Udaipur won the most
“Favorite Indian Hotel Spa” in India and was awarded as the “Favourite Indian Leisure

card before billing. Not valid on Christmas, New Year and Valentine's Day. The
discount cannot be combined with other oﬀers. Valid till 31st March 2017

Taj West End Hotel - Mynt – The 24 hr all-day dining at The Taj West End
oﬀers refreshing ambiance with a ﬁrm emphasis on authentic dishes from
Italian, Mediterranean, Lebanese and Indian cuisine
15% discount on food & soft beverages up to a table of 10
Note: - Govt. Taxes and service taxes applicable additionally - All members
must provide identiﬁcation during billing - Not applicable on special days like
Christmas, New Year, Valentine’s Day - The above oﬀers cannot be combined
with any promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March, 2017
Taj West End Hotel - Blue Ginger – Arguably Vietnam's ﬁrst and ﬁnest
culinary brand, Blue Ginger is today synonymous with authentic Vietnamese
cuisine. 15% discount on food & soft beverages up to a table of 10
Note: - Govt. Taxes and service taxes applicable additionally - All members
must provide identiﬁcation during billing - Not applicable on special days like
Christmas, New Year, Valentine’s Day - The above oﬀers cannot be combined
with any promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March, 2017
Taj West End Hotel - Masala Klub – Masala Klub holds the key to a repertoire of
inﬂuences which are a melange of the best recipes from the north and south of
India, adapted to a contemporary, light menu. A highlight of the dining experience
at Masala Klub is the Tamarind Sorbet, a palate cleanser, made from the tamarind
pulp of the very tree the restaurant sits under!
15% discount on food & soft beverages up to a table of 10

Note: - Govt. Taxes and service taxes applicable additionally - All members must
provide identiﬁcation during billing - Not applicable on special days like Christmas,
New Year, Valentine’s Day - The above oﬀers cannot be combined with any
promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March, 2017

The Oberoi Bengaluru - Rim Naam – 15% discount on food and soft drinks
(does not include Sunday brunch. This discount will not be valid for special
promotions like Christmas and New Year packages. Valid till 31st March, 2017
The Oberoi Bengaluru - Le Jardin – 15% discount on food and soft drinks at
(does not include Sunday brunch). This discount will not be valid for special
promotions like Christmas and New Year packages. Valid till 31st March, 2017

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 9

OWC MEMBER DISCOUNTS

Continued...

FOCUS ON CHARITY

Hotels, Restaurants and Bars
The Oberoi Bengaluru - Polo Club – 15% discount on food and soft

drinks. This discount will not be valid for special promotions like
Christmas and New Year packages. VALID TILL 31st July, 2017
The Oberoi Bengaluru - Szechwan Court – 15% discount on food
and soft drinks. This discount will not be valid for special promotions like
Christmas and New Year packages. Valid till 31st March, 2017
Toscano – 10% discount
Vivanta By Taj - M G Road, Bangalore: Café Mozaic – 15% discount
(Mon to Fri ) and 10% discount (Sat and Sun) on food and soft beverages on
production of up to date OWC membership card. Valid till 31st March, 2017
Vivanta By Taj - M G Road, Bangalore: Graze – 15% discount (Mon to
Fri ) and 10% discount (Sat and Sun) on food and soft beverages on
production of up to date OWC membership card. Valid till 31st March, 2017

Vivanta By Taj - M G Road, Bangalore: Memories of China

– 15% discount (Mon to Fri ) and 10% discount (Sat and Sun) on food and
soft beverages on production of up to date OWC membership card. Valid
till 31st March, 2017
Vivanta By Taj - Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore: Caramel – 20% discount on
production of up to date OWC Membership Card on all days. Valid till
31st December, 2016
Vivanta By Taj - Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore: Latitude – 20% discount on
production of up to date OWC Membership Card on Sunday brunch.
Valid till 31st December, 2016
Vivanta By Taj - Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore: Rooms – 20% discount on
production of up to date OWC Membership Card on Friday, Saturday and
Sunday. Valid till 31st December, 2016
Vivanta By Taj - Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore: Tease Bar – 20% discount
on production of up to date OWC Membership Card on all days. Valid till
31st December, 2016

Services & Shopping
Clarins Skin Spa – Complimentary treatment valued at Rs.1,700 on

booking of any Clarins Tri Active Face or Body Treatment on ﬁrst visit.

Hamilton Realtors – 10% discount
INTEREM International Removal Division of Freight Systems
India Pvt Ltd. – 10% discount on presentation of up to date OWC

Membership card presented before billing.

Jean-Claude Biguine Salon – 20% discount in all Bigune Salons in
Bangalore till 31st March 2017

MONTAGE - Vittal Mallya Road – 15% discount on framing and all

artwork on presentation of valid OWC card before billing.

Mövenpick - Sohum Spa – 10% discount
Ritz Carlton Spa – 15% discount
S2 Spa by Emma – 20% discount on massages and spa treatements
TAJ Bangalore - Jiva Spa – 15% discount on presentation of OWC

card before billing. Valid till 31st march 2017

TAJ WEST END HOTEL - Jiva Grande Spa and Salon – 20% discount.
Note: - Govt. Taxes and service taxes applicable additionally - All members must
provide identiﬁcation during billing - Not applicable on special days like
Christmas, New Year, Valentine’s Day - The above oﬀers cannot be combined with
any promotions at the hotel. VALID till 31st March, 2017.

Vivanta By Taj - Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore: Jiva Spa – 20% discount on
production of up to date OWC Membership Card on all days. Valid till 31st
December, 2016
Vivanta By Taj - Yeshwantpur, Bangalore: – 15% discount on
production of up to date OWC Membership card at restaurants, Palette,
Azure, Paranda and Jiva Spa

NOTICE
Pro-rata Rates for New Members joining from January 2017 up to March
31, 2018 are as follows with the cash discounted prices in blue:
Regular Price

Discounted Price

January 31st to March 31, 2018

Rs. 5,356

Rs. 5,200

February 28th to March 31, 2018

Rs. 4,944

Rs. 4,800

March 31st to March 31, 2018

Rs. 4,532

Rs. 4,400

April 30th to March 31, 2018

Rs. 4,120

Rs. 4,000

10 | The Rangoli − January 2017

FOCUS ON CHARITY

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 11

Navachetana

FOCUS ON CHARITY

A

By
Susan DeRise

As I begin writing this article
on one very special charity
that has touched my heart,
I am brought back to the
very first moment today
that I entered the grounds
of my charity. Today was
my introductory visit to
the charity by the name of
Navachetana. After my first
visit something told me that
this was one of my purposes
here in Bangalore.
12 | The Rangoli − January 2017

As I entered the gate to the grounds, I was
greeted by a lady that I somehow just knew
was the woman whom I had spoken to
over the phone the previous day. In person
her serene and peaceful demeanor tugged
at me, giving me the signal that this is the
same individual who had left the same
impression on me over the phone. As I
entered the safe house that she had created
on her very own, she gently shakes my hand
and smiles at me with one of the warmest
smiles that I have ever received.

stand for those who are unable to do so
on their own. As she kindly brings me over
to her desk that is humble and welcoming,
she begins to reminisce and describe to me
with great passion just what exactly made
her start this charity. I can tell by looking
at her that she is being brought back to
the time when she decided to make all of
this happen. She looked at me very calmly
and stated that she is a person who never
wanted anything for herself, she only
wanted to help others.

Her name is Lissy and she is the founder
of the charity Navachetana. Lissy moved
to Bangalore from Kerala twenty-six years
ago and began this charity solely on her
own and with the idea that she wanted
to make a difference in society and take a

So twenty-six years ago, Lissy arrived in
Bangalore and decided to take people
who were roaming the street and looked
as if they were in need, and provided
shelter to them. Lissy’s charity that she
started twenty-six years ago has grown

FOCUS ON CHARITY

into a facility that can accommodate up
to fifteen people. Currently, Lissy is taking
care of eight women and one male. Each
of these individuals are unable to care for
themselves and the majority suffer from
mental illnesses such as schizophrenia.
Lissy provides transportation to and from
the hospital and with the help of the
Overseas Women’s Club’s donations, and
through our charity she is able to pay for
the medications that they are in dire need
of. Lissy is also able to provide food and
clothing to these individuals with the help
of the OWC.
Along with the various basic things that
the Navachetana charity provides, there
are also mental and physical wellness
programs that are offered at the center.

Each person in this charity is provided with
the opportunity to participate in group
therapy discussions, exercises, goal setting
groups and lastly, one of the programs that
really brings light to these folks lives are the
drawing classes. In this class, each person
is given a colored pencil and a piece of
paper that they can utilize as an alternative
outlet to communicate and express their
inner feelings and emotions. For some of
these patients the basic function of talking
is almost impossible. When coupled with
a mental illness, it can become extremely
challenging and frustrating for these
individuals to express themselves. This
class can be a savior to these people that
so desperately want to let their feelings
out into the universe. Lissy described to
me an incident that occurred when she

tried to take one of the individuals in
her shelter to the hospital for treatment.
While trying to board the rickshaw, the
patient experienced trouble trying to
express to the rickshaw driver where she
wanted to go and at the same time was
unable to process the surrounding noises.
All of this, plus the reluctance of the
rickshaw driver, disturbed her so badly
that she went into sensory overload and
panicked, ultimately throwing herself out
of the rickshaw and becoming injured
in the process. These simple things can
become a daunting process when Lissy is
helping these people in need, but Lissy
never gives up. She stated to me that
with the help of the charity, there are
people who have arrived like lions and
changed into lambs. Lissy goes on to
describe one young woman who was in
her 20’s that arrived with mental illness
and an inability to care for herself or
her two children. After taking shelter at
Navachetana and utilizing their care, she
was able to become healthy enough to
eventually leave the shelter and care for
herself on her own. She is now healthy
and living her life free with the ability to
proudly stand on her own.
It has been a true honor to be able to
have the opportunity to work with this
charity through the OWC. There are still
many hurdles that the charity faces.
Recently, she has been told that they
will soon have to vacate the premises
because the landlord has decided to sell
the building. Lissy with her determination
and dedication to her cause stated that
the charity will be fine and will find a new
shelter. This charity is in great need still
and it brings pride and a sense of relief
that the OWC charity group is here to
support the charity through any hardships
they may face.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 13

FEATURE

14 | The Rangoli − January 2017

FEATURE

OWC Christmas
Bazaar 2016

By
Florentina Buchholz

This year's holiday season kicked off with the OWC's
Christmas Bazaar - a much awaited event within
the expat and local community of Bangalore. After
so many years of wonderful bazaars at St. Mark's
Cathedral, it was time for a change: a bustling,
bigger location was found at the St. John's Church
Community Centre in Frazer Town. This involved a
lot of 'mores': more food stalls, more vendors, more
volunteers, more technical challenges and of course
more cash and change.
The Rangoli − January 2017 | 15

FEATURE

The lovely setup and venue included this
year a Kids' Corner with face painting by Sai
Shankar, make your cuddly, soap or lip gloss
- activities by divas and dudes. Fancy pink
cotton candy and popcorn for the little ones
made this area undoubtedly one of the
most fun corners on this day. Of course the
arrival of Santa around noon as well as the
BICF, Muse Choir and Trio performing carols
and other songs gave everyone in doubt the
ultimate Christmas feeling.
For the first time, several of the Charities
supported by the OWC were present
and gave those interested a glimpse of
their work with many of them offering
their merchandise for sale as well. Afters
days and days of baking at home, lots of
beautifully crafted cookies and scrummy
yummy baked goods were donated by the
members of the OWC and the sponsors for
the Christmas Bake Sale. These and all other
proceeds raised during the Bazaar go to the
22 Charities supported by the OWC.
The venue was filled with vendors:
handcrafted jewellery, beautiful home

16 | The Rangoli − January 2017

products and décor for all year-round
use, handwoven scarves and stoles, fancy
Christmas decoration and gifts, amazing
bags and clothes of all kinds. The delicacies
sold at the chocolatiers' and pastry stalls
tickled the taste buds of every connoisseur
within a hundred feet. The mouthwatering
foodstalls like Toscano, Habanero, Sbarro
and Café Noir were crowd pleasers and
helped any tired adult get the energy
needed for some more shopping.

FEATURE

the "forgotten" like the ANU Project but
also the small entrepreneurs of the region
who maybe would not have made their way
past the large corporations dominating the
Christmas sales. The gifting season is also a
giving season: by buying at the bazaar, one
gives a little something to a special project,
a charity or secures local employment for
someone with a family somewhere else.

The spirit of Christmas was everywhere:
the corridors filled with eager shoppers
looking for the ultimate gift with that
special touch. And there they were - the
unique pieces and heritage arts & crafts all
made with special care and attention. By
walking from stall to stall, one could not
help but get the feeling that these items
would otherwise not find their way under
our Christmas trees. Each bought item
supports not only the charities employing

All of this would not have been possible
without the continued support of our
sponsors such as Virtuous Retail (VR-Mall),
Writer Relocation, Interem International
and Spectra Construction. A big thank you
goes out to all vendors for making this
bazaar such a big attraction every year
and last but not least to all the visible and
invisible helping hands before, during and
after the Bazaar.
Wishing everyone a wonderful holiday
season, we look forward to seeing you all
next year, same place.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 17

VOLUNTEER SPOTLIGHT

Nanhi Singh
By
Susheela Mary Thomas

B

Bangalore has been a pleasant surprise.
My children were 3 and 9 when we
moved here. I believe this is the perfect
place for kids in terms of India's love for
children, their kind and loving hearts,
safety, and of course, the gorgeous
weather. We have been able to be a
part of the great international Bangalore
community giving us the opportunity to
meet people from all walks of life.
That is not to say that I don't get
frustrated with the traffic or frustrated
that people don't understand what I'm
saying. But I remind myself that I am
a guest in this country (they are nice
enough to welcome us here) and I need
to respect the Indian way - the good and
the not so good. The same way I would
expect they would do in Canada.
I joined the OWC in August 2012 while
we were staying at the Leela before our
house was ready. A friend of a friend
had suggested that I join as soon as I
arrive. Soon after I joined the Fundraising
Committee. My time as part of the
committee has been invaluable in so
many ways. It has created friendships
that will be life-long and has given me a
purpose. Planning fundraising events is
enlightening and has helped me better
understand how things work in India and
how the money raised from events like
these helps the OWC charities along with
providing fun and entertaining events for
families living here.

Nanhi Singh was born in Oxford, England but soon after
moved to Toronto. She arrived in Bangalore in August
2012 from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia after almost 6 years.
Nanhi grew up visiting India - her parents were born here
- but after living in Canada for 50 years so she didn't know
what to expect…
18 | The Rangoli − January 2017

I deeply feel that it is our duty as expats
in India to help the local people and
organizations in any way that we can.
The OWC kick started my mission to that
and now I continue to do my little part
by holding small fundraising events for
a local school close to where I live. But I
have lots more to do...

EVENTS

November
Lunch Bunch
The Oberoi, Le Jardin

By
Gail Butler

O

On hearing that the Lunch bunch was at the
Oberoi, I was not going to miss a chance to
visit this beautiful hotel for the first time.
Why did I leave it so long?
As the Oberoi is situated on MG road it
was a short car ride from the Leela coffee
morning so nearly everyone arrived on
time. We were greeted with a welcome
drink of homemade ginger ale which was
very refreshing and cooling just what was
required as it was a rather hot day.
There were 19 ladies attending and the
chatter on arrival was all about how we
were going to pay as this was only 2 days
after the currency changes and most of us
had no legal tender. But with the help of the
staff at the Oberoi and the lovely Susheela
and Shelley we were quickly sorted and
able to go ahead with the beautifully laid
out buffet lunch.
We were first served with mainly Indian
starters and a slice of pizza which was
random but very enjoyable. The buffet as
you can see from the pictures was very
varied from salads to curries every box was
ticked. The desserts were divine and to
choose was very difficult, I normally only
have 2 but I had to stretch it to 3, it would
of been rude not to!
Beautiful venue and splendid company,
thank you Events Committee and thank you
to the Oberoi for a very enjoyable lunch and
a free spa treatment gift. Happy days
The Rangoli − January 2017 | 19

EVENTS

Meeting an Author in
Bangalore

By
Deborah Manzoori

houses juxtaposed with the trees and the
birds (kites) soaring through the warm therms
really encapsulated Bangalore.
Archaea Moulik is a lady with a story to
tell. She has lived through exciting times
in the U.K.,USA and Italy. She has visited
many countries (as we discovered during
our talk) and has been a tough negotiator
to get what she wants; a characteristic you
would not anticipate from the slight framed
physical appearance.

T

The Overseas Women’s Club (‘ OWC’) of
Bangalore organizes regular events for expat
ladies living in Bangalore. This month was a
“speaker meeting” with Achala Moulik, the
author of Dangerous Dispatches. It’s a very
long time since I’ve been to a book launch or
review so I decided to go along, after all it was
something different to do in Bangalore. I had
no idea what to expect.
I met my friend in the reception of one
of the large hotels in Bangalore called the
Shangri-La. It’s beautiful and the reception
area always has a magnificent and huge
flower display. This week it is star gazer lilies
and the fragrance wafted through the air
delighting the senses. We meandered up
to the restaurant on the 18th floor where
the meeting was to be held. We were
immediately arrested by the magnificent view
across Bangalore. The Palace grounds could
clearly be seen in full as was the palace itself.
We could see for miles. The eclectic mix of

20 | The Rangoli − January 2017

After graduating, her career has been
varied being the Education secretary to
the Government of India, the Director
General of the Archeological Survey of
India, published 20 books on cultural history
and archaeology, written a play called
“Pushkin’s Last Poem” and written about
Russian history and literature, as well as 3
novels. She has received the Pushkin medal
and the Sergei Yesenia prize from Russia. (I
was left thinking about my own career and
achievements and wondering whether I’ve
been slacking for some of my time on
this planet!)
A small group of ladies gathered around a
table to meet Achala. The meeting organiser
from the OWC introduced the author who
then introduced herself, telling us all about
where she had lived and what she had
witnessed (e.g. being in America when
JFK was demanding Cuba remove atomic
bombs – also known as the Cuban Missile
Crisis). Prompted by questions about her life
and the book, ‘Dangerous Dispatches’, we
discovered stories about crossing borders
and exploring dangerous territories all
in the aim of investigating the unknown
which may be of some interest. “Just a

little further” was a phrased Achala used
when crossing the border into Afghanistan
to explore some architectural wonder,
pushing the boundaries of her ‘guards’ and
permissions! It was fascinating. The people
she has met and the adventures she has
experienced all helped to shape this book. I
could have sat and chatted with her for hours.
The book is a story about a ‘frontline’
journalist (I think now we call them foreign
correspondents) and his wife who is an
archaeologist; their Russian friends (also a
journalist and his wife), an Afghan prince and
his wife and an English writer and his wife.
It is set amongst some of the 20th century
conflicts in Afghanistan, Iran, Bosnia and the
Middle East and is about how their lives cross
and how it shaped their destinies. It is clear
that the characters and stories have formed
from the authors own experiences and people
she has met over the generations.
It sounds like a fascinating book (just like the
author) and I can’t wait to get started on it. (It
is available for a very cheap price of INR410.).
Altogether a very different and enjoyable
morning in Bangalore. Sometimes life
provides inspiration and fascination in the
most unexpected places – today was one of
those days.

Fisheye

EVENTS

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 21

HEALTH & LIFESTYLE

A Hospital Experience
in Bangalore

By
Steve Schley

I had a bit of a problem last May which necessitated
having surgery here in Bangalore. It seems like
there are many Expats who worry about the quality
of medicine here, so I was asked to talk about my
experience. A sad fact of life for males is that as we get
older, the closer we have to get to the target when we
need to relieve ourselves. When we are 17 years old,
10 feet is not a problem.

T

There is actually an urban legion of one
attaining 20 feet, but it was said to be
wind aided. After a point in life, men can
no longer write their names in the snow,
they can only dot an “I”.
I found myself one fateful Saturday
morning without even the ability to
dot and in some discomfort, or as I call
it PAIN. One thing about hospitals in
India is that there is no long waits for
appointments. Normally you can make
an appointment the same day or the
next day the latest. I called and had an
appointment within 3 hours. The body
did not cooperate and I decided the best
course of action was the emergency room
where the wait is very short. I was in
extreme pain and must have looked like

22 | The Rangoli − January 2017

hell, because they took my blood pressure
as I entered, and it was very high. The
Doctors looked very concerned and I was
led quickly to a room where they closed
the drapes. It would have been bad
form to have some foreigner die in their
emergency room for everyone to see.
I was told that I would have to have
a catheter inserted. I knew what the
word meant, and it struck no fear.
It is not a harsh sounding word, no
hard, intimidating sounds in it like
“conjunctivitis”. I knew where it was
going to go and pretty much knew the
limitations for it. I was not worried.
As I awaited the procedure, a person I
assumed was a gardener came in with
something that looked like a garden hose.

Seemed like a strange place to bring in a
hose. I soon discovered that the gardener
was a doctor and this “hose” was meant
for me. At this point I was in too much
pain to argue. Despite my misgivings, the
procedure went smoothly. I was soon out
of pain and both thankful and impressed,
but still did not want to see what was
done.
A number of doctors and nurses came by,
running tests, drawing blood and taking
me for a variety of scans using some very
expensive and new looking equipment.
Eventually the urologist came by and
told me that my prostate was gigantic
and causing the issue. Of course it was
gigantic, no wimpy prostates in my family.
Some of my test results would not
be completed till Monday, so I was to
meet the urologist Monday afternoon
for the results and have the operation
Tuesday. The surgery would be done by
him along with the head of the hospital
in Bangalore. I felt good about his
competency and adding the other doctor
removed any worry for me. All of this was
done within 4 hours of arrival so I was
amazed.

HEALTH & LIFESTYLE
I met the doctor on Monday, no issues,
and was told to register at the admissions
office. Now that was a bit different. They
do not handle insurance the way we do in
the USA where we tell them our numbers
and they handle it all. Admissions wanted
to make sure that all deductibles are paid
ahead of time along with receiving an
authorization letter from my insurance
company with guarantee of how much
they would pay. We gave them the
insurance companies contact information
in India and they said they would handle
it at the end I had a certain level of
confidence they had it under control.

Eventually two nurses came into the room
to take my vitals. In the USA we would
call them 'candy stripers' as their skill set
is very limited. After them came in the
anesthesiologist, followed by a man who
came in with a shaver. Mmmmm… I sure
hoped he was going to trim my beard, but
I was wrong.

would seem, there is something about
tubes sticking in sensitive places that
deaden it. During my time in recovery, I
felt very well taken care of. Nurses were
always attending to me and periodically
doctors would check in to see how I was
doing. All in all, the medical side seemed
to have been done in a very skilled
manner

The surgery was uneventful and boring
on my side since I was awake but numb.
I guess no one thought of having a TV
on for me. Eventually I was taken back
to my hospital room. I have never stayed
overnight in a hospital but I assume it was

After a few days of recuperating, I was
told I could leave. They disconnected me
from all my lines and I happily got ready,
thrilled to be leaving and in good humor.
I said goodbye to the nurse and headed

pretty much like those in the USA. Every
few hours, 2 young nurses would come
in, take vitals, and do some other work
which exposed me to the elements. There
were many sets of nurses that would
come in for this over time, all young,
not too experienced and delighted to be
taking care of me. It seemed that they
do not have many Caucasian men staying
there so I felt like a celebrity. I had a
feeling they were running tours. For 1,000
rupees you could see the naked white guy
and get a cup of tea. As much fun as this

out. I approached a security gate but then
was told I could not leave. Seems like
Administration had not completed the
exit paperwork and I needed to wait for
about two hours since it was lunch time.
In the movie 'The Hulk', there comes a
time when David Banner gets so upset
that he turns into the monster. I’m not
sure about my skin turning green but I am
sure I did have the same look on my face.
They were going to tell me I could NOT
leave????? I had to wait two hours for
something that should have already been

Next morning I arrived and went to
the administration office to check in. I
was told that they had not received the
paperwork from the Insurance Company,
and wanted me to pay for the entire
procedure of $4,000 dollars up front. I
asked them how they had contacted the
Insurance Company to which they replied,
EMAIL. EMAIL!!!!!!!!!!!!!?????????? I was
annoyed and expressed my displeasure.
I 'informed' them that the proper way
to have handled this was to 'CALL' the
number, not send an email. Seems my
words were persuasive, or at least their
tone. They told me they would call and
only charged me my deductible.
I was then taken to my room. After
the issue with Admissions, my room
expectations were very low. The door
opened and I was amazed. The room was
enormous, it had a main area with sofas,
chairs, wet bar, tables and a big screen TV
along with its own bathroom. I could have
easily hosted a party for 60 people there.
A door opened into another room that
looked more hospital like. It contained
a very large private hospital room and
bathroom. Things were looking up.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 23

HEALTH & LIFESTYLE
done and should only take 5 minutes,
and the staff was out to lunch????? I told
them they had 30 minutes, after that I
was leaving.
One thing I have noticed in India is that
they have rules and regulations, but if a
foreigner is upset enough, they are all
bypassed. Amazingly they finished the
paperwork in 26 minutes and I left. I
spent the next 5 months recovering. My
doctor visits were numerous and I had a
complete confidence in them. All in all, the
experience was not bad. The competency
of the staff was good, the speed was
excellent, but the Administrative portion
was bad. Given all that, I would have no
reservations in recommending receiving
medical attention if forewarned about the
red tape.

5 Course Meal Veg and Non-Veg
January 12th After Leela Coffee
Rs: 1,000 Members
Rs: 1,200 Non-Members
To book your place email lunchbunch@owcbangalore.org
or visit the Leela Coffee Mornings
24 | The Rangoli − January 2017

PASSION & PURPOSE

MY INDIA

By
Peggy Bhohi

My husband had come from India to Germany for a
business meeting with the company I was working for and
that was the beginning of my journey! I arrived into India
by end of October 1999.
to accommodate the immediate needs,
just like in Whitefield.
There are a lot of sayings “India grows
onto you” or “you either hate India or
you love it; there is nothing in between”!!
Before I arrived here, I had never been in
India before. But the minute I came out of
the airport, I liked it. The smell of so many
things, which is hard to describe, the
colors, the diversity and soooooo many
people…

A

At that time things were very different. I
had to bring along a lot of items, which
were common for my diet and comfort
at that time. Now most of the things are
easily available (sausages, cheese, whole
wheat bread etc). We might have to pay
a higher price due to import taxes, but at
least we don’t have to carry it anymore.
Often my husband showed me places,
which were a jungle in the mid 70’s and
today those places are high populated
areas and business hubs. It is difficult
to imagine Bangalore being a small city
and the traffic being half as dense as it
is now. I have seen the transformation
myself in Gurgaon. There was hardly any
population till 2004. When the malls
came, the high rises started and the
expats came. Today it is the center for all
big MNCs and gated compounds with all
comfort areas – tennis, swimming pool,
fitness, small grocery shop and pharmacy

My husband always told me “don’t take
things too literally”…. this is the biggest
challenge for most of the Expats coming
from abroad! You mean what you say,
but not here! Most Indians unfortunately
don’t have a time commitment, or an
invite is not necessarily an invitation…!
This difference in mentalities makes
it sometimes difficult, also at the
workplace. People who have undergone
a cultural program have a better insight
in this matter. But haven’t we all come to
face a new challenge in life…
It is sometimes not easy to face the
'reality': the vendors who charge more
from us foreigners, to the average Indian,
who tends to stare unabashedly and
rather embarrassingly at a different skin
colour. There are so many hang ups, that
a foreigner in India faces and it is this
what the various expat groups are helping
the members to understand better and
deal with. Initially we all think, 'this only
happens to me' and we get upset. Once

we talk to others we quickly realize that
we are not alone, the same has happened
to others as well. People can learn a
lot about ayurvedic and homoepathic
medicine or yoga, they can get involved in
charity work – what is better than helping
others…
Think of your stay in India as an
opportunity to explore, learn new things
and be open to accept another culture.
A lot of the Indian Traditions are from
the past and a lot of people hang on to
them, not knowing the reason where
it had been coming from. But things
are changing and it is exciting to be in a
country, which is living through changes,
as we could see right now with the
demonitization.
Being a part of the OWC means meeting
the same kind of like-minded people for
coffee mornings, who can help a lot to
bridge the two worlds - make new friends,
who have the same challenges every
day. Don’t plan to many things in a day,
otherwise you’ll become frustrated. Be
happy once you have managed one task.
Take the opportunity and travel. India is
so big and controversial in itself. It has so
many places to see – safaris, crocodile
farm, hill stations, sea side resorts and
back waters, not to forget all the historical
temples and sightseeing points. It is hard
to ever feel bored, as there is so much to
do in this country.
Embrace India and the culture, step out
of your comfort zone, meet local people
and develop a new support system,
which is well worth the effort!! We should
appreciate the place that we inhabit
instead of comparing it with our homes.
The world we are living in is changing
every day and so are we. If I am looking at
my own home country, Germany, 17 years
later, so many things have changed and I
am sure that goes for all of us looking at
their own home countries…
The
The
Rangoli
Rangoli
− December
− January 2016
2017 | 25

TRAVEL

How to enJOY yourself
A solo trip to Rishikesh

After 5 years in Bangalore
with her husband Ross
and 2 young children,
Australia beckoned and
the Abernethy family
responded. They left at
the end of October for
Brisbane.
In her time here Joy has
not been idle. Indeed,
she has been busy gaining
qualifications to teach both
Yoga and Pilates. She has
written for the OWC on her
experience of acquiring
her qualifications and of
participating in the winning
women's team in the
100km Oxfam Trailwalker
event last year.
26 | The Rangoli − January 2017

By
Mary McAuley

I

It's not surprising then that she would
exit with a flourish. In the final couple of
months before the inevitable chaos of a
family's departure, many expats try to visit
at least some of those 'must see' places
that they never quite got to. Some indulge
on a shopping spree and others try to
offload stuff that isn't wanted on voyage.
Joy decided on the first option. She chose
to go to Rishikesh.
Given Joy's yoga journey this far in India
it made sense to use her final travel
opportunity to make what is a sort of
pilgrimage to Rishikesh. Ever since the
Beatles rocked up there at the ashram
of the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in the late
‘60s, Rishikesh has been a magnet for
spiritual seekers. Today it styles itself as the
‘Yoga Capital of the World’, with masses
of ashrams and all kinds of yoga and
meditation classes.
Rishikesh is a city in the Dehradun district
of Uttarakhand state in northern India. Its

location in the foothills of the Himalayas
and on the banks of the holy mother
Ganges not far from its source almost
screams its spiritual credentials. It is too
pure for alcohol and non- vegetarian food.
I met Joy just a week before she left and
asked her first what made her do it. She
said that it was a spur of the moment
thing, a now or never trip to the 'Mecca of

TRAVEL
yoga,' that she was able to fit into ' a quiet
time before the move.' She acknowledged
the support of her husband Ross in all this.
She did a lot of research about the
ashrams in Rishikesh. An ashram is a centre
for the teaching and practice of yoga and
many offer accommodation and meals.
I'm glad she did the homework because
when I did a quick Google of 'ashram
Rishikesh' I was amazed at the huge and
confusing assortment of sites for individual
ashrams and the usual array of sites
promoting what they claim as the top 11
ashrams or the 5 best or 29 yoga ashrams.
Another gave a list of 203 yoga centres,
schools and ashrams. Seems like there's
something for everyone.
can enrol. Joy said that a visitor can fully
embrace the ashram experience by signing
up for courses that vary in length. It isn't
compulsory to join a yoga course to stay at
the ashram although by doing so a guest
becomes very involved with the routine of
ashram life. A typical day starts early with
singing and prayers. Classes for course
members start after that around 7:30am.
Meals are taken in silence. Guests can do
as little or as much yoga as they want.

Joy picked the Parmath Niketan Ashram
which seems to feature in many of the
collective listings and is popular with
foreigners. It has a slick site that describes
its 1,000 residential rooms as retaining
'the simplicity of ashram living and yet
are equipped with the necessary modern
amenities.' which translates as an ensuite
with hot water on tap. The site continues
that the ashram is not only a spiritual
haven for those who visit, but it also

provides education, training, and health
care to those in need.
The President and Spiritual Head of
Parmarth Niketan Ashram, is H.H. Pujya
Swami Chidanand Saraswatiji. He certainly
seems to have a cult following and is held
in reverence by the faithful. There are
several specific courses on which a guest

Joy was pleased with her choice. Speaking
as someone with considerable experience
she advised that it is important to find
teachers who are able to focus on an
individual's proper alignment and level.
In her case, she followed a course on
Astanga yoga which was fairly advanced
and challenging. All the teachers there are
registered with the Yoga Alliance.
Joy mentioned that there are any number
of hotels where visitors can stay although
the quality and amenity of both varied
greatly. She had heard stories of bed bugs,
unchanged sheets and dirty facilities.

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 27

TRAVEL

the choice on offer. Caution is advised as
commercialism is rampant but this doesn't
stop the town having a sedate and chilled
atmosphere. Visitors come from India and
from every corner of the world.
At Parmarth Niketan, foreign guests
comprised about 85% of those staying
when Joy was there. She said that there was
a huge variety of interesting people who
had all sorts of reasons for being there.
She felt that, being alone, made it easier
to meet people, many of whom were also
solo travellers.

During her two week stay she spent the
first week staying at the ashram but due
to her late booking she had to move to a
hotel for the latter part of her stay. At the
very end of her trip she treated herself to a
night at the uber-smart Ananda resort.
Apart from following classes or meditating
at the ashram there is lots to explore the
town of Rishikesh. Visitors can shop and

28 | The Rangoli − January 2017

eat at the very many establishments that
cater to the huge number of incomers.
Masses of flyers and notices are found
all over town, promoting a vast range of
courses and classes. It sounds as if it could
be confusing unless a visitor had some
advice or a plan. It is probable that the
quality of the teaching is as variable as

Personally, Joy enjoyed the opportunity to
practice and expand her knowledge. She
felt that it was a place that enabled visitors
to learn about yoga and meditation as well
as about themselves. She did admit to
missing her favorite foods. That aside, she
found the whole experience relaxing and
would encourage anyone with an interest
in yoga at all levels to make the journey.
Her final advice was to book ahead rather
than take a chance on arrival as the more
respected and established ashrams are
the most popular and are heavily booked.
Above all, travel with an open mind.

COOKING

Leela Palace
Every Thursday, 10:00 am – 12:00 noon
Coffee Liaison: Sherry Walter, president@owcbangalore.org

Central: Ritz Carlton
Wednesday, 18 January, 2017
10:30 am – 12:00 noon
Coffee Liaisons:
Susanne Peris, susanne_b_p@yahoo.dk or
Susan David, davidsusan.43@gmail.com

North: Movenpick Hotel
Tuesday, 17 January, 2017
10:30 am – 01:00 pm
Child Friendly
Coffee Liaisons:
Amardeep Bhatia, jiyabhatia@gmail.com or
Meredith Mehra, meredith_mehra@mail.com

South: Courtyard by Marriott
Wednesday, 11 January, 2017
10:30 am to 12:00 noon
Outer Ring Road, Marathahalli Sarjapur Road,
Bellandur, Bengaluru
Child Friendly
Coffee Liaison: Lindie Bosman,
clavatsia@hotmail.com

East: Marriott Whitefield
Tuesday, 17 January, 2017
10:00 am to 12:00 noon
Coffee Liaison: Nan Singh,
vnsingh@yahoo.com

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 29

COOKING

It’s winter so bring on the cozy
socks and warming soups!

Creamy Chicken
and Mushroom
Soup
YIELD: 6 SERVINGS
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES
COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES
TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES
Preparation Instructions:
1.

Heat olive oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium
heat. Season chicken thighs with salt and pepper, to taste.
Add chicken to the stockpot and cook until golden, about 2-3
minutes; set aside.

2.

Melt butter in the stockpot or Dutch oven over medium heat.
Add garlic, mushrooms, onion, carrots and celery. Cook,
stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. Stir in
thyme until fragrant, about 1 minute.

3.

Whisk in flour until lightly browned, about 1 minute. Whisk in
chicken stock, bay leaf and chicken thighs, and cook, whisking
constantly, until slightly thickened, about 4-5 minutes.

4.

Stir in half and half until heated through, about 1-2 minutes;
season with salt and pepper, to taste. If the soup is too thick,
add more half and half as needed until desired consistency is
reached.

5.

Serve immediately, garnished with parsley and rosemary,
if desired.

30 | The Rangoli − January 2017

Ingredients:
• 1 tablespoon olive oil
• 8 ounces boneless, skinless chicken
thighs, cut into 1-inch chunks
• Salt and freshly ground black pepper
• 2 tablespoons unsalted butter
• 3 cloves garlic, minced
• 8 ounces white mushrooms, thinly sliced
• 1 onion, diced
• 3 carrots, peeled and diced
• 2 stalks celery, diced
• 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme
• 1/4 cup all-purpose flour
• 4 cups chicken stock
• 1 bay leaf
• 1/2 cup half and half, or more, as needed*
• 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves
• 1 sprig rosemary
*Half and half is equal parts of whole milk and cream. For
1 cup half and half, you can substitute 3/4 cup whole milk +
1/4 cup heavy cream or 2/3 cup skim or low-fat milk + 1/3
cup heavy cream.

HEALTH & LIFESTYLE

Enter the

OWC Photo

Competition
Dear Members (India lovers),
Our 2017 OWC Photo Competition is now open!
Share your experiences of India through your photographs. Show us the
amazing places you have visited, breathtaking landscapes, people you
have met, festivals and foreign customs you have witnessed. Share with
us the pictures of your very own India and maybe get the opportunity to
see them printed in the OWC Calendar 2018, on the cover of The Rangoli
magazine or on our greeting cards.

Deadline is 31 March 2017

You can send up to 8 pictures (2 per category)
Categories are Nature, Culture, Places and
somewhere in India

Faces and taken

Send to photoeditor@owcbangalore.org
Simply name your photo in the following way:-

YOUR NAME / CATEGORY / TITLE.JPEG
For example: JohnDoe / Faces / Villageboy.jpeg

And please remember to include your OWC Membership number in the Email
Competition is open to all OWC Members and their family
With the submission of your photographs to the OWC Photo Competition you
agree to allow the OWC to use your picture in any of its publications.
Judges will view all the entries and winners will be published in The Rangoli.
We are excited and hope to get to see many beautiful photographs, time to
get clicking...

The Rangoli − January 2017 | 31

32 | The Rangoli − January 2017
匀琀漀爀攀 䄀搀搀爀攀猀猀 㨀 ㄀⼀㄀ 刀刀䴀刀 刀漀愀搀Ⰰ 刀椀挀栀洀漀渀搀 䌀椀爀挀氀攀Ⰰ 䈀愀渀最愀氀漀爀攀 ⴀ ㈀㔀⸀ 吀攀氀㨀 㠀 ⴀ㐀㄀㄀㐀㔀㔀

⸀ 嘀愀氀攀琀 瀀愀爀欀椀渀最⸀

